# Mimcss: Style Authoring in TypeScript

Mimcss is a TypeScript library that allows authoring CSS styles without creating CSS files. Instead, the styles are created via TypeScript programming. You code your styling rules including CSS classes, selectors, animations (keyframes), media etc., by creating TypeScript classes. The Mimcss library processes these classes and creates the rules that are inserted into a `<style>` element in the `<head>` of you HTML document. As a result, your application or library bundle is self contained and doesn't require a separate CSS bundle.

### Features
The goal of the Mimcss library is to support all CSS features in a type-safe and easy-to-use manner. Mimcss provides the following capabilities:

- Compatible with and independent of any library: use with React, Angular, Vue etc.
- Stylesheets are defined as TypeScript classes.
- Names of classes, IDs, animations and custom CSS properties are auto-generated, while developers use properties that return these names.
- Stylesheets can be dynamically activated and deactivated.
- All CSS rule types are supported including style rules and at-rules.
- Custom CSS properties are supported in a type safe manner by defining what standard CSS property type they represent.
- Style rules can be nested and can extend other style rules.
- All pseudo styles and pseudo elements are supported using convenient and compact notation.
- Stylesheet classes support inheritance - elegant way to implement theming.
- Type safety and autocomplete support for CSS property values to eliminate misspellings.
- Using numbers for default units of length, angle, percent and other CSS property types.
- Using numbers, tuples, arrays, objects and functions (in addition to strings) when specifying CSS property values to increase convenience and eliminate misspellings.
- Convenience functions for specifying complex property values (e.g. colors, calc(), var(), linerGradient(), etc.)
- Access to CSSRule-derived objects for direct style manipulation.

### Quick Start
Let's assume that we need to create several simple styles for a couple of classes and an ID. With Mimcss, you create a TypeScript class and then, in your component's TypeScript code, you refer to the CSS classes and IDs using their names as properties:

```tsx
/* MyStyles.ts */
import * as css from "mimcss"

class MyStyles extends css.StyleDefinition
{
    vbox = css.$class({
        display: "flex",
        flexDirection: "column",
    });

    hbox = css.$class({
        display: "flex",
        flexDirection: "row",
    });

    importantElement = css.$id({
        color: 0xFFCC88,
        fontWeight: 700,
    });
}

/* MyComponent.tsx */
import {myStyles} from "./MyStyles"
import * as React from "react"
import * as css from "mimcss"

class MyComponent extends React.Component
{
    myStyles = css.$activate( MyStyles);

    componentWillUnmount()
    {
        css.$deactivate( this.myStyles);
    }

    render()
    {
        return <div className={this.myStyles.vbox.name}>
            <p id={this.myStyles.importantElement.name}>Hello!</p>
            <div className={this.myStyles.hbox.name}/>Hello!</div>
        </div>
    }
}
```

This immediately brings us the following advantages:

- The autocomplete mechanism of our IDE will prompt us with the list of defined names. As soon as we type `myStyles.` the IDE will present the list of all the properties defined in our style definition object.
- If we change the name of or remove the property in the `MyStyles` class and forget to change it in our component's `render` method, the project will not build. Thus a compile time error will prevent a much-harder-to-find run-time error.
- Notice how we used numbers instead of strings when defining `color` and `fontWeight` properties. Although seemingly a minor feature, this can add extra convenience and speed during development. Mimcss defines types of each style property and provides numerous functions so that properties can be set in a type-safe and easy-to-use way.
- The styles are not present in the browser's memory until the component that defines them is mounted. The `$activate` function inserts the styles into DOM. Upon unmounting the styles are removed from DOM. This is only one of the possible activation strategies - more are discussed in the Mimcss guide. The point is that the developers are in full control of when the rules are activated. Moreover, since activating rules means writing to DOM, components can synchronize this process with other DOM-writing activities.
- The names we are using in our code are not actually the names that will be used in the resulting HTML. The actual names to use in HTML will be auto-generated by the Mimcss infrastructure, which ensures that they will be globally unique. In Debug mode the generated names reflect the names used in the code, while in Release mode, the names are created with minimal length.

This is really just scratching the surface - for more information please see [Mimcss Guide](https://mmichlin66.github.io/mimcss/mimcss-guide-introduction.html).
